reference/compute_observed_event_rate.md, before:

# Compute empirical event rate

Calculate the empirical event rate over a given interval.

## Usage

``` r
compute_observed_event_rate(
  lifelihoodData,
  interval_width,
  event = c("mortality", "maturity", "reproduction"),
  max_time = NULL,
  min_sample_size = 1,
  groupby = NULL
)
```

## Arguments

- lifelihoodData:

  `lifelihoodData` object created with
  [`lifelihoodData()`](https://nrode.github.io/Lifelihood/reference/lifelihoodData.md).

- interval_width:

  The interval width used to calculate the event rate. For instance, if
  the time unit for deaths in the original dataset is days and
  `interval_width` is set to 10, the event rate will be calculated every
  10 days for each group.

- event:

  Which event to compute? Must be one of "mortality", "maturity",
  "reproduction".

- max_time:

  The maximum time for calculating the event rate. If set to NULL, the
  time of the last observed death is used.

- min_sample_size:

  The minimum number of individuals alive at the beggining of a time
  interval for computing the observed event rate

- groupby:

  vector of covariate(s) over which mortality rate should be computed
  (default is `NULL`).

  - If NULL, calculates a single overall mortality rate.

  - If `"all"`, calculates mortality rate over each combination of
    covariates listed in the`lifelihoodData` object provided.

  - Otherwise must be a character (`"covariate1"`) or a character vector
    (`c("covariate1", "covariate2")`). Note that the function will
    consider continuous covariates as factors

## Value

A dataframe with 3 columns: Interval (time interval, based on
`interval_width` value), group (identifier of a given subgroup, or
"Overall" if groupby = NULL), and Event_rate (event rate at this time).

Commit message:

Deploying to gh-pages from @ nrode/Lifelihood@9db5935a0f0c891666acac16e6cb2b0012829c0e 🚀

reference/compute_observed_event_rate.md, after:

# Compute empirical event rate

Calculate the empirical event rate over a given interval.

## Usage

``` r
compute_observed_event_rate(
  lifelihoodData,
  interval_width,
  event = c("mortality", "maturity", "reproduction"),
  max_time = NULL,
  min_sample_size = 1,
  groupby = NULL
)
```

## Arguments

- lifelihoodData:

  `lifelihoodData` object created with
  [`lifelihoodData()`](https://nrode.github.io/Lifelihood/reference/lifelihoodData.md).

- interval_width:

  The interval width used to calculate the event rate. For instance, if
  the time unit for deaths in the original dataset is days and
  `interval_width` is set to 10, the event rate will be calculated every
  10 days for each group.

- event:

  Which event to compute? Must be one of "mortality", "maturity",
  "reproduction".

- max_time:

  The maximum time for calculating the event rate. If set to NULL, the
  time of the last observed death is used.

- min_sample_size:

  The minimum number of individuals alive at the beggining of a time
  interval for computing the observed event rate.

- groupby:

  One or multiple covariates used to group the computation. If NULL,
  calculates a single overall rate. If `"all"`, calculates rate over
  each combination of covariates. Otherwise must be a character or
  character vector with covariate names.

## Value

A dataframe with 3 columns: Interval (time interval, based on
`interval_width` value), group (identifier of a given subgroup, or
"Overall" if groupby = NULL), and Event_rate (event rate at this time).
