articles/contributing.md, before:

# Contributing

## How to Contribute

Before reading this article, we recommend familiarizing yourself with
the [overview of how Lifelihood
works](https://nrode.github.io/Lifelihood/articles/overview.md).

### Introduction

This document outlines the guidelines and steps for contributing to the
**Lifelihood** R package. Contributions from the community help improve
functionality, address bugs, and ensure that **Lifelihood** remains
robust and up-to-date. This guide covers setting up your development
environment, working with Git, and submitting changes.

### Setting Up Your Development Environment

To start contributing, you’ll need to set up a local development
environment where you can modify, build, and test **Lifelihood**. Follow
these steps to get started:

- **Fork the Repository**

- **Clone Your Fork Locally**: run the following command in your
  terminal, replacing `yourusername` with your GitHub username:

``` bash
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/Lifelihood.git
cd Lifelihood
git remote add upstream https://github.com/nrode/Lifelihood
git checkout -b feature-name
```

- **Install Development Dependencies**: install all necessary
  dependencies for development, including **Lifelihood** itself, by
  running:

``` r

install.packages(c("devtools", "testthat", "roxygen2", "pkgdown"))
remotes::install_local(dependencies = TRUE)
```

### Make changes

All R source code resides in the `R/` directory, and only these files
are included in the package.

After making changes, you can verify that everything works as expected
by running:

``` r

devtools::load_all()
```

This allows you to work with `lifelihood` functions using your latest
local modifications.

### Documenting

Documentation for **Lifelihood** is managed with **Roxygen2**. If you
add or modify functions, update the documentation by running:

``` r

devtools::document()
```

### Testing and Validation

**Lifelihood** includes a suite of unit tests located in the `tests/`
directory. These tests help ensure that changes don’t break existing
functionality. Run tests using:

``` r

devtools::test()
```

Ensure all tests pass before submitting a pull request. Adding new tests
for new features or bug fixes is highly encouraged.

### Code format

In order to ensure consistent code style, it’s recommend to install
[Air](https://posit-dev.github.io/air/), an R formatter. The
documentation with it has tutorials on how to set up it in your IDE
(RStudio, Positron, VS Code, etc).

### Submitting a Pull Request (PR)

Once your changes are complete and tested, submit a pull request to
propose integrating them into the main **Lifelihood** repository:

Add, commit and push your branch to your fork on GitHub:

``` bash
git add -A
git commit -m 'commit description'
git push origin main
```

Then go to your project fork and click on the “Open a pull request”
pop-up.

When a pull request (PR) is opened, GitHub Actions will **automatically
run checks** to validate your changes. These checks include testing the
codebase, ensuring consistent documentation, and verifying
cross-platform compatibility.

You can view the status of these checks directly in the pull request
interface.

Commit message:

Deploying to gh-pages from @ nrode/Lifelihood@64eb5134248cce566a2a25fd29a77f0ba4d247c9 🚀

articles/contributing.md, after:

# Contributing

## How to Contribute

Before reading this article, we recommend familiarizing yourself with
the [overview of how Lifelihood
works](https://nrode.github.io/Lifelihood/articles/overview.md).

### Requirements

You need all of the following tools to be installed on your machine:

- [Git](https://git-scm.com/install/): versionning and for Github

- [Air](https://posit-dev.github.io/air/): an R formatter

- [Rust &
  Cargo](https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/getting-started/installation.html):
  if you plan to update Rust source code.

  ``` bash
  curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://sh.rustup.rs | sh
  source $HOME/.cargo/env

  rustc --version
  cargo --version
  ```

### Setting Up Your Development Environment

To start contributing, you’ll need to set up a local development
environment where you can modify, build, and test **Lifelihood**. Follow
these steps to get started:

- **Fork the Repository**

- **Clone Your Fork Locally**: run the following command in your
  terminal, replacing `yourusername` with your GitHub username:

``` bash
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/Lifelihood.git
cd Lifelihood
git remote add upstream https://github.com/nrode/Lifelihood
git checkout -b feature-name
```

- **Install Development Dependencies**: install all necessary
  dependencies for development, by running:

``` r

install.packages(c("devtools", "testthat", "roxygen2", "pkgdown"))
remotes::install_local(dependencies = TRUE)
```

### Make changes

All R source code resides in the `R/` directory, and only these files
are included in the package.

After making changes, you can verify that everything works as expected
by running:

``` r

devtools::load_all()
```

This allows you to work with `lifelihood` functions using your latest
local modifications.

### Documenting

Documentation for **Lifelihood** is managed with **Roxygen2**. If you
add or modify functions, update the documentation by running:

``` r

devtools::document()
```

### Testing and Validation

**Lifelihood** includes a suite of unit tests located in the `tests/`
directory. These tests help ensure that changes don’t break existing
functionality. Run tests using:

``` r

devtools::test()
```

Ensure all tests pass before submitting a pull request. Adding new tests
for new features or bug fixes is highly encouraged.

### Code format

In order to ensure consistent code style, it’s recommend to install
[Air](https://posit-dev.github.io/air/), an R formatter. The
documentation with it has tutorials on how to set up it in your IDE
(RStudio, Positron, VS Code, etc).

### Submitting a Pull Request (PR)

Once your changes are complete and tested, submit a pull request to
propose integrating them into the main **Lifelihood** repository:

Add, commit and push your branch to your fork on GitHub:

``` bash
git add -A
git commit -m 'commit description'
git push origin main
```

Then go to your project fork and click on the “Open a pull request”
pop-up.

When a pull request (PR) is opened, GitHub Actions will **automatically
run checks** to validate your changes. These checks include testing the
codebase, ensuring consistent documentation, and verifying
cross-platform compatibility.

You can view the status of these checks directly in the pull request
interface.

### Rust

You can try to compile Rust code with `cargo build`. It shouldn’t raise
any warning or error messages.

You can run `cargo test --all-features` to run Rust unit tests.
